Description: We will enable Multi-AZ and backups, create a read replica, promote a read replica, and update the RDS endpoint in Route 53. Multi-AZ and read replicas serve different purposes with RDS. 
Multi-AZ is strictly for failover, as the standby instances cannot be read from by an application. Read replicas are used for improved performance and migrations.

Enable Multi-AZ Deployment
Configure the Multi-AZ Instance
Navigate to EC2:scroll to Load Balancing and select Load Balancers.
Select the load balancer and then copy the DNS name of the load balancer.
Open a new browser tab, and paste the copied DNS name.
This web page will be used to test failovers
Navigate to RDS, select Databases.
Select the radio button to the left of the wordpress database details.
Click Modify--Enable Multi-AZ deployment:
In the Availability & durability section, select Create a standby instance
Click Continue.
In the Schedule modifications section, select Apply immediately.
Click Modify DB instance.Click Refresh.
Status changes to Modifying. The instance may take up to 10 minutes to enable Multi-AZ.

Verify the Multi-AZ Deployment
After the instance is available again, verify that Multi-AZ is enabled:
In the Amazon RDS sidebar menu, select Events.
Review the events history for the instance.
Reboot the instance to simulate the Multi-AZ redundancy:
Select Databases.Select Reboot.
On the Reboot DB Instance page, select Reboot With Failover? and click Confirm.
This ensures the secondary instance takes over when this instance goes down. The reboot takes a few moments.
Navigate to the DNS web page tab and refresh the page.
The web page should stay up because you have Multi-AZ deployment enabled. 
After the reboot is complete, the Multi-AZ standby is now the primary.
Navigate back to the AWS Management Console and use the Amazon RDS sidebar to select Events
Review the events history for your instance.

Create a Read Replica
In the Amazon RDS sidebar menu, select Databases 
Select Create read replica.
In the Settings section, enter wordpress-rr into the DB instance identifier field.
In the AWS Region section, ensure the Destination Region is set to US East (N. Virginia).
Click Create read replica at the bottom of the page. The read replica will take about 5-10 minutes to become available.
Navigate to the DNS web page tab and refresh the page.
The web page should stay up because the read replica changes are asynchronous.

Promote the Read Replica and Change the CNAME Record in Route 53 to Point to the New Endpoint
Promote the Read Replica
After the read replica is available, select the radio button to the left of it.
Select Promote.
Click Promote read replica at the bottom of the page.
After a few moments, click Refresh.
Read replica's Role has changed from Replica to Instance, and that the Status is now Modifying.

Change the CNAME Record to Point to the New Endpoint
After the read replica instance is available, select the wordpress-rr instance name.
On the Connectivity & security tab, copy the Endpoint to your clipboard.
Open Route 53 in a new tab.
Disregard any error messages that display.
In the Route 53 sidebar menu, select Hosted zones.
Select the mydomain.local hosted zone name.
In the hosted zone details, you should see a CNAME record that points to your wordpress database endpoint.
Check the checkbox to the left of the CNAME record.
In the Record details pane on the right, click Edit record.
Replace the existing Value with your copied read replica endpoint.
Click Save.
Navigate to the DNS web page tab and refresh the page.
You should see no downtime.
