SCENARIO
An ice cream business starts to gain popularity among the locals and flavors start to sell out before the day is up. 
The business owners asks the Solutions Architect to migrate to a server where they can have you push updates.
They decide to migrate their static site to Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) with a Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP (LAMP) stack built on it.
This will allow the website to update and react dynamically. 
Demand for the ice cream surges after a viral video and the infrastructure and maintenance becomes difficult to manage. 
To scale with demand, the solutions architect suggests migrating sections of their LAMP stack to serverless services, starting with the MySQL database. 
The MySQL database will be replaced with Amazon DynamoDB serverless database.

LAB OJECTIVES
a) Upload files to Amazon S3 to host a static website.
b) Migrate the dynamic website hosted on EC2 from using a MySQL database to using Amazon DynamoDB.
- The Operating System (OS) for this Amazon EC2 instance is Linux, the HTTP server is Apache, the MySQL database is MariaDB, and the scripting language used is PHP. 
All of these configured together, run the dynamic website. 
A dynamic site is information or web pages that are generated in real time. 
With a LAMP stack, customers will be able to input orders, and submit them.
c) Update the DynamoDB table with a new ice cream flavor. (Update dynamic website to a serverless solution using DynamoDB for the MySQL database. 
DynamoDB can scale with the demands of customer web traffic to ensure customers continue to reach the Ice Cream website without interruptions.)
d) Refresh the website to reveal the new ice cream flavor.

APPLICATION ARCHITECTURE
The application architecture uses the following services:
-Static site: Amazon S3 which contains HTML, CSS, and images.
-Dynamic site: Amazon EC2 Linux, Apache web server, MySQL database, and PHP (LAMP) stack will come pre installed. 
This will allow the owner or developer to update the flavors available for the day.
-Serverless: Amazon DynamoDB. This will replace the MySQL database and make the database portion serverless.
